---
layout: post
title:  "Day 4 - Road Reservations"
date:   2015-02-12
categories: update
---
**THIS IS A DRAFT AND THEREFORE NOT COMPLETE**

### Road reservations
- Focusing on appropriate development distance from roads. Spec. Primary Roads.
- 15m either side from center line of road.
	- Building features
	- Power Lines
	- Any permanent structure.

Statistics on the number of permanent structures within this reservation.

**Key Steps**

1. Select all the primary roads. ```planet_osm_lines```
2. Create a 15m buffer around the roads.
3. Find all the buildings within the buffer zone.
4. Find all power lines (line, poles), sewer lines (line, manholes), trees, billboards.
5. Categorize structure distance from road centerline. (**0-5m, 6-10m, 11-15m**) 

## Find all primary highways
First we need to do some data discovery and find out what are the tags used for roads in Lesotho. We will do a count on all the highway tags to see if ```primary``` exists in the highway column.

Open the PGadmin SQL window and paste in the following query:

{% highlight ruby%}
# display count of all highway tags
SELECT highway, COUNT (*)
FROM planet_osm_line
WHERE highway IS NOT NULL
GROUP BY highway
{% endhighlight %}

Now that we can see **primary** does exist we will now create a new table of just the **primary roads**.

To do this we will use the ```WHERE``` clause so that only rows where the value in column ```highway``` is equal to ```primary```.

Open the PGadmin SQL window and paste in the following query:

{% highlight ruby%}
# find and create table the primary roads
CREATE TABLE primary_roads AS
SELECT highway, way
FROM planet_osm_line
WHERE highway = 'primary'
{% endhighlight %}

You can then open QGIS and load the primary_roads table as a new layer.

**Add PostGIS Layer -> Connect -> primary_roads -> Add**

The first step is now complete.
15 poles within buffer



